My idea is to build an app which uses existing methods and machine learning combined to predict floods, cyclone or any other natural disaster. Here I will be explaining the idea to predict whether there will be a flood or not. Same idea will apply to other natural disasters.

As given on our govt. website http://india-water.gov.in/ffs/ , flood forecasting in india involves methods like measuring the level of nearby rivers and if is above a given value than predicting that there could be a flood. But this method is not very reliable as we seen in the case of Kerala floods and uttarakhand floods. It actually sometimes predict too late to take any action and its prediction is also not very reliable. But it is not completely useless.

On google I found a lot of research papers on Flood forecasting using machine learning. Most them were using the standard idea with some ML algorithm that given earlier values of humidity, temperature, wind speed etc. they were making their algorithm learn when to predict there will be a flood and when there will be not. But the problem here is that we have very limited data of when there were floods for a given region(data will vary from region to region) hence it is quite difficult to train our algorithm to a great efficiency.

I have studied in my college that when we have such cases i.e. we have limited data of one kind for which we want to predict we can use bayseian analysis to predict. I gives quite a reasonable prediction in such cases. Now bayseian prediction needs data and some prior probability. We will use combined our ancient indian way of forecasting + machine learning forecast to get this prior and will put in our baysian analysis formula to predict better and more reliable results.

We are also plannig on a concept of hiring a person in each area whose job would be to tell us his belief that whether he feels like there will be a flood coming or not. I know it will look a bit unscientific to you but i think if we can find such an experienced man who has seen 2-3 floods in his life than he is no less than a trained machine learned using existing data.
